---
title: "The Weight of Honor"
type: "Short Story"
author: "Vincent Le"
cover: "/images/writing/the-weight-of-honor.png"
order: 2
tags: [Fiction, Monsters, Magic]
---

Defeat is not humiliation, nor is it momentary. Defeat is the gentle,
scorching breath of Pyrathos gliding along your skin; defeat is choking
on the ashes of what remains; defeat is the embers in your heart,
waiting to be ignited after years of flickering, of suffering.

As I’ve always learned, might is the heart of Pyrathos. It disseminates
through our culture as viciously as the lava that sprawls from the
volcanoes. It erupts from persistence and melts with hesitancy. Might is
earned and it is cherished; it is the fire we’re all born into, and the
only flame worth tending. From a young age, parents tell their children
that *heat burns weakness*, instating an early competition amongst our
peers.

Though, there is often a misunderstanding that competition cannot breed
companionship. But in Pyrathos, rivalry is sacred. We do not sharpen
blades to draw blood—we sharpen them so that the strike means something.
Nothing promotes growth as much as pushing another beyond their limit
and letting them do the same to you.

But, amongst it all, there is honor.

Victory is nothing without virtue. Strength is worthless without
sanctity. Intensity has no purpose without integrity. Strength without
restraint is tyranny; restraint without strength is cowardice. Using our
desolate and branded terrain, our might draws from the respect of the
fire, and the fire only speaks when listened to.

Yet, despite these pillars being distinctly human, the efforts of the
Eidra are what define them. One’s Eidra can tell you everything. They
are pure truth manifested by your soul. If an Eidra is defensive, their
Catalyst is cautious—anxious. If an Eidra is offensive, they’re
confident—but if they’re aggressive to the point of excession, they’re
lacking in other areas and don’t want you to have time to figure it out.
If an Eidra tends to have repeated attack patterns, their Catalyst is
rigid—they struggle to adapt to new situations. An Eidra is a reflection
of ourselves incarnated within pure Form, and, as Catalysts, we are
forced to confront them every moment. And what a gift that is—what
dignity to know yourself so clearly.

Ignir is that for me. My pride. My proof. My form made flame. He was
everything that I couldn’t admit that I needed. My faith, without
question.

So why, when the screams of my people drown out the collapsing of our
homes, does mine fail to manifest? Why, when it comes to defend my
village as terror eclipses it, does mine refuse to listen? Why, when my
life and the life of my brother burns delicately in the hands of one who
has so maliciously and dishonestly snuffed out others, does mine abandon
me?

Ignir, my pride. Where have you gone? And what am I without you?

A flicker. Not in the air, but in the heat around me—like the breath of
a fire that nearly catches. It surges behind my ribs, a thrum of warmth.
But then it dies, smothered by the cold that wraps my throat. No flame
answers—not around me, but within me. Only silence, silence trying not
to break under the weight of what I demanded. Where once a furnace raged
behind my chest, there is only a cinder. A bond gone cold.

“Let’s move on,” a voice mutilated by ferocity says. “There are more
prominent threats.”

The Eidra in front of me is colossal, a unique form of terror. Its body
is swallowed by shadow, sallow arms anchoring it to the ground over me.
Its face is hidden by a helmet of twilight, its cries, muffled and
hollow, as if its mouth had been sewn shut. It glares at me, getting so
close that my skin begins to chill and numb, crystallizing the breath in
my throat. Then, it stares at the unconscious body that I had dropped
behind me—Brecken.

I try once more to call upon Ignir, igniting my soul in hopes that he
appears. Like before, I feel the tug of his presence, the heat of his
ferocity, but he does not manifest. My chest tightens, as if Ignir is
clinging stubbornly to a part of me I can’t release—I can’t control. The
air crackles around me as the embers seem to flicker brighter, not with
defiance, but confusion. Not resistance, but recoil. No longer a
reflection, but a distortion. As if the flames couldn’t bear what I’d
become. As if I were a stranger. Visions of protest shimmer and vanish
as Ignir once again refuses my call. My breath stutters as though he’s
stolen it away, leaving me gasping and alone in my own skin.

I tighten my fists and slam into the ground as I redirect the will I had
to summon Ignir into myself. For Brecken, I’d fight this thing myself if
I had to.

“I said let’s move,” the voice commands as the Eidra yanks back, obeying
its unseen leash of dominance. This was not an Eidra nurtured by honor,
but of savage conquest. “The fodder is, and always will be, irrelevant.”

With a turn of his heel, the Eidra swirls around him and perches on top
of his shoulders, a cloak of subjugation as he marches forward. The
man’s eyes hover—they never deigned to meet mine. I watch as they swipe
away, empty of hesitation. Above him, his Eidra, free of the invisible
threads that tied Ignir to my soul. That Eidra, it wasn’t just strong.
It was unbound, free of virtue’s limitations.

As soon as they’re out of sight, I leap to my feet and lunge towards
Brecken. He’s heavy, much heavier than me. I always thought that it was
the weight of his heart that made him so hard to carry. I now realize
that, like everything else, he is purely much larger than me.

Soot slips off his face with a groan as I lift him off the ground. I
stumble forward unevenly, each step melting my might. The ash that falls
from the sky, the tears of the smoke and the flames that tore our
village asunder and dare weep for us, only makes him heavier. There’s
another explosion of screams before they are quickly silenced by the
horrifying and apathetic muzzle of death. I push myself forward through
the leftover sounds of crackling embers as I see the marks of the
monster I had just survived: wood scarred by claws, several inches deep;
the ground is blasted by shards of ice that refuse to melt; everything
else that once remained and fought—material, Eidra, or human—reduced to
a withering mold, a forced birthmark on the ground for centuries to
remember.

It then occurs to me that we never fought back. Not truly—not when it
mattered. We were so wrapped in ritual and reverence that we forgot how
to survive.

By the time I reach the outskirts of the village, I am wheezing from the
immense burden of Brecken’s body and density of the smoke conceived by
the destruction. I turn towards Victory’s Ridge and follow it closely,
my hand tracing the wall for support. Then, I see them, the four rocks
that always signified safety. I push past the rocks and wriggle through
the following gate of leaves, in which a specific path has opened over
time. The breath of refuge forces me to kneel and gently place Brecken
down at our grotto.

Nobody has ever found us here, and, if I have my way, nobody ever will.

My eyes force open to an earthquake.

“Emrys,” A voice as hot as charcoal shakes me awake. My eyes choke and
my lips quiver as Brecken smiles in gratitude and forces me into his
arms. “Lava be, I thought you were gone.”

“You can’t get rid of me that easily,” my own hiccups interrupt the
timing of my quip.

“I never wanted to be rid of you in the first place,” Brecken says, his
face still covered in ash. He looks around, his expression thawing as
relief peels off of his face. “Where’s mother?” He finally asks.

My jaw squirms and my hand digs into the ground, similarly to how they
reached impossibly for her in the withering mold left behind by that
creature. “I couldn’t find her.”

Brecken stares at me. His eyes go blank for a moment, unable to process
what I’ve said. Then he turns sharply, scanning the ridge, the blood on
his face freshly dried and crusted. “We have to go back,” Brecken’s face
hardens. “She might still be alive.”

“No,” I say. His eyes widen and his eyebrows knot. “We can’t.”

“But we can fight!” Brecken yells a little too loud. “Me and Vulkanoir,
you and Ignir, we can—”

“I said we can’t!” I clutch my head. Not in pain, but in refusal. “We
can’t.”

Silence joins us, thick with the bubbling judgment of the lava in
Victory’s Ridge. I refuse to look at Brecken, who I know is staring at
me with those eyes that never understood and never will understand. He
opens his mouth, but closes it just as fast. He looks at me as if I owe
him an explanation.

“You don’t sound like yourself,” Brecken says quietly. “What happened?”

“We lost,” I say. “The whole village, wiped. It’s over.”

“We lost, but we are not lost.” Brecken says. “Because we still live. Us
four.”

“There’s no four,” I spit more viciously than I would have thought. “Not
anymore.”

He kneels down to me and places a calloused hand on my shoulder. “You
don’t mean to tell me that Ignir—”

“I don’t know where he is,” I say, staring at my clenched fist. “He
refuses to obey me. I couldn’t summon him, or maybe I did and he saw
what I had become at that moment.”

“Eidra don’t obey,” Brecken says, his voice quieter than before. From
behind him, I see bright orange eyes in a purple-black canvas peer
out—Vulkanoir, watching. “They communicate. They reflect. It’s like the
fire, Emrys. They burn in response.”

“You know what I mean,” I mutter. “He didn’t answer my call.”

Brecken exhales. There’s that expression again—the twitch of an eyebrow,
the disagreeable graying of his irises, the slight bend to his lips.
It’s the same expression he always gives me when I talk about Ignir. But
this time, he speaks.

“You never called him, Emrys,” he says. He’s not angry, nor scolding.
Just exhausted. “You just expected him to appear. Like he was your
strength, not his own. Eidra don’t answer to force. They answer to
feeling.”

His words land like a smooth stone in water—no splash, just weight.

“He’s always been there before,” I say, but even I hear the defense in
it. “He had always come when I needed him to.”

“Has he?” Brecken asks. “Or have you only ever needed him when you
already felt certain of who you were? That you would win?”

Silence stretches between us, pulling tight like the skin on a fresh
burn. I look past him—toward the ridge, toward what remains of the
village. My thoughts circle, not sharp enough to defend against what he
said. Because a part of me knows he’s right. What if I only saw
certainty in Ignir because I was too afraid to see anything else?

I never called Ignir. I summoned him. I expected him to appear because I
was sure he would.

But what if that wasn’t my own strength? What if it was just an
illusion?

My jaw clenches, but no words come. I just breathe, slow and shallow.
Brecken, who I see squirm with regret, decides to change the
conversation.

“So what do we do now?” He finally says.

“We find someplace new,” I say. “Start over.” My heart flares with
dissonance. My own words betray my desires. But the fear that causes me
to tremble in the way that causes Brecken to grab my hands, it
overwhelms everything.

“After all this,” Brecken starts, “I don’t think that’s possible. It’s
not in our blood to leave this unresolved, and I know you know that as
much as I.” He stands up as he goes to the leaves and begins to collect
their thick branches. “Let’s take the night. We’ll talk about it in the
morning.”

Paralyzed in thought, I watch Brecken ignite the branches. Their leaves
and skin are quick to catch, but their history prevents them from ever
burning out. They had become resistant after decades of combustion.
*Heat burns weakness*, I hear my mother say as I watch the leaves
confront the fire with authority and poise.

The rest of the night passes involuntarily. Somehow, Brecken falls into
his deep, snoring sleep, oblivious of what truly happened in the
village. But I remember everything. My stomach boils and my skin simmers
as I recall the atrocities left behind by that man and his Eidra. The
sound of my mother’s scream collapsing into silence. The ice that
refused to melt. The way that man’s Eidra perched like a shadow on his
shoulders—not a partner, but a weapon.

Not a bond, but a throne.

The fire in front of me flickers, mocking me with every rise and fall of
its breath. My thoughts begin to churn with something worse than anger.
Jealousy. Not at his cruelty, but at his certainty; at the way the world
seemed to obey him; at the way nothing stood in his path. His strength
was insurmountable and, yet, it was wrong. It was earned without
fairness and without honor. He struck in the night—defying the Rule of
Assent. He used his Eidra against me, a human—breaking the Rule of
Symmetry. When he won, he did not honor the fallen, but desecrated
them—spitting on the Rule of Reverence.

Every pillar of Pyrathos was shattered and stood tall atop the rubble,
proud.

So what good were the rules, if not to protect us? What good were the
verses I recited as a child? The discipline I cultivated, the honor I
bled for—what did they buy us except silence and soot? The fire stares
back at me. I feel the prick of its judgment as I realize that I’m
sitting too close to the branches that refuse to burn. Then, a thought
kindles: what if weakness isn’t what’s being burned away by the heat,
but the parts of us that hesitate? That question? That resists?

Maybe it isn’t honor that the fire wants—it’s surrender. Not to virtue,
but to heat. To hunger.

We are taught to chase strength like a flame. To revere it and let it
shape us. But no one tells you how easily it consumes. How easily you
forget the shape of yourself while chasing the heat. I did everything
right. I followed every rule and I earned my might. I bowed where I was
told to bow, struck only when told to strike. I fought with reverence
and discipline. I believed—with every part of me—that the fire would
protect those who earned it. Fuel those who fought righteously.

But it didn’t. It chose nothing. It watched and let us burn.

That man—he cared only for power, and it answered him.

So what does that say about Pyrathos?

What does that say about me?

I sit in silence, watching the fire try to burn through wood that has
long since learned to survive it. Maybe it’s grief, or maybe I’m tired.
Maybe I’m wrong to question something so intimately etched into the
shape of my bones. The rules, they’ve always been there. Not as chains,
but as scaffolding. What am I if I tear them down?

*Heat burns weakness*—my mother’s voice, spoken like scripture. That
sweet voice that ingrained the harshest values into me. The rules. The
rites. The rituals. I repeat them in my head like an incantation, as if
saying them enough times will make them real again. Make them matter
again. As if honor can be resurrected by will alone.

Victory is nothing without virtue.

Strength is worthless without sanctity.

Intensity has no purpose without integrity.

I say them aloud, quietly, until my voice cracks like the fire. They
sound borrowed, like somebody else’s words. A part of me still wants
them to be true, that if I could just believe hard enough maybe Ignir
would return. Maybe I could wake Brecken and say I’ve changed my mind,
that we can fight and rebuild. That we can still be Pyrathian.

But the silence answers and, in it, I hear everything the fire refused
to say.

I see the man with the collared Eidra and how the world bent for him;
not because of who he was, but because of what he took. He didn’t wait
to be chosen. He didn’t ask for approval. He didn’t flinch when the
rules shattered around him, because he didn’t have any.

He wasn’t better, he was free.

And I hate that. I envy it.

My body shakes—too much emotion stuffed into what I now see is too
little shape. I dig my nails into my palm and try to hold onto something
solid. I did everything right, but it didn’t matter. I bend closer to
the fire. My fingers hover just above the flame. It doesn’t flinch. It
doesn’t warm me. It doesn’t speak.

“Ignir,” I whisper. “If you’re still with me, if there’s anything
left—anything at all—tell me this is wrong. Tell me I don’t have to do
this.”

But nothing stirs, nor sparks. There’s not even so much as an air of
rebuttal. As I await an answer, the fire’s breath thins with mine. It’s
light dims like a held breath that I can’t release. It doesn’t
extinguish, but waits. In that hollow stillness, it’s not Ignir that I
hear, but a voice. A name, which rises like an ember that never died.

Torvexus.

The first time I heard it, I was a child. It was a story to keep us from
cruelty. The tale of a leader who thought he could wield rage and
ambition as if they were honor. Archon Pyrrh, who climbed Mount Fervor
in search of vengeance and came down carrying more might than Pyrathos
could handle. It was denoted as a Hollow Eidra, an Eidra corrupted by
the darker aspects of human nature. Pyrrh was swallowed by his own
grief, they said, and found monstrous ways to cope. But to me, even
then, what he did never felt monstrous. It felt decisive. Maybe Pyrrh
didn’t burn too hot, maybe it was just the world that was too cold.

The result was catastrophic: Torvexus amplified his grief and branded it
into genius. Into something terrifying. Unstoppable. So they locked it
away because no one wanted to admit that power like that doesn’t ask
permission. It doesn’t care about the rules. It doesn’t wait to be
worthy.

Maybe I don’t want to be deemed as worthy either.

I stare at the ashes, who have finally sent an answer.

I don’t need Ignir to choose me. I’ll become the bond I was denied.

“Brecken,” I shake him awake so early in the morning that the only light
still is the fire at our camp.

“What?” he groans, his eyes struggling to open.

“I found our answer,” I say.

“Our answer?” He repeats, finally inviting me into his vision.  
“Torvexus,” I say. The name doesn’t feel summoned—it feels returned.
Like it had been waiting under my tongue all along.

Brecken freezes. Not in fear, nor disbelief, but recognition. A word
passed from one firepit to another for years, always ending with a
warning. “Torvexus,” he repeats slowly and bitterly, as if something
sour possessed his mouth. “You speak of a legend that burned villages,
not avenged them.”

“It’s how we win,” I ignore his caution. “That man, he burned so
brightly the world couldn’t ignore him. That’s what we need. Not to be
followed, but to be undeniable.”

He stands now, quicker than I expected. “You’re serious.”

I frown as he rejects my idea. “Of course I’m serious.”

“Don’t sound so proud of such an idea,” he stands. “Torvexus is a
cautionary tale, Emrys. Not a cure. Pyrrh wasn’t a hero. He was just a
man who let grief masquerade as strength. And look what he left us.”

“But it’s strength nonetheless,” I snap. “Real strength. You want to
talk about what Pyrrh left us? Look at how the Rules protected us!” My
head flicks towards the village. “That man didn’t care about reverence
or virtue. He cared about power, and he won.”

“You think becoming like him is how we honor what we lost?”

“We don’t honor the dead by dying the same way,” I say. “We honor them
by not letting it happen again. He’s still out there.”

Brecken shakes his head. “You don’t want justice. You want power.”

“Of course I want power!” I yell. “If I had power, then maybe we would
still be on top of the mountain, back from our morning exercise with
breakfast on the table! Maybe we could stop by the market for our share
of spices and sweets!” I pound my chest. “Maybe I could see Ignir, or
mother again—” I shut myself up, but Brecken’s eyes flicker in
understanding. He has already built the conclusion that I tried to hide
from him. I take a breath and continue. “Maybe I wouldn’t have to wonder
why the thing that made me whole vanished when I needed it most. That
man, he ruined our lives, Brecken. There’s nobody else who can help us.
Help the world.”

Brecken takes a step back, his irises moving—analyzing. He looks as if
he’s been approached by a stranger. “And you think Torvexus will listen?
We don’t need that monster to win this battle. He took Pyrrh’s grief and
turned it into madness,” he continues, scanning my eyes for recognition.
“Pyrrh. One of the strongest in our history. Do you truly think grief
like ours will fare any better?”

I don’t answer.

“Emrys—” Brecken’s voice softens, pleads. “You believed in the Rules. In
the fire. In Ignir. Don’t let that belief wane just because it didn’t
protect you once.”

“It didn’t protect any of us,” I say before a long silence dawns on us.
“Are you going to help me?” I ask, the words bitter in my mouth.

Brecken doesn’t answer at first. Instead, he’s searching—searching for a
version of me that would recite the Rules with him. The version of me
that he would support unwillingly.

“Are you still my brother?” He asks.

Silence bubbles between us, an answer to both of our questions. It is
then I realize that I’ve already lost him.

Just like I lost the village.

Just like I lost Ignir.

My knees feel weak and my spine shudders—memories of carrying his body
from the rubble flooding them. But I don’t feel the grief. Not really.
And it’s not pain anymore. It’s ember. Memory too tired to flame.

“Fine,” I say as I turn to exit through the gate of leaves. “Fine.”

All this talk of rules, of honor, of values, they’ve only ever left us
weak and shattered. So what good are they? Brecken looked at me as I
imagined those who looked at Archon Pyrrh, as if I’m bound to bring ruin
to Pyrathos. But he’s wrong. I don’t want to destroy what we are.

But if our honor burns the moment it’s tested, then what was it ever
worth?

I walk, not because I know where I’m going, but because I can’t stand
still. Not with Brecken behind me. Not with everything we didn’t say
still suspended in the air between us, distorting it like a heat wave. I
don’t look back, not even when I hear the fire shift behind me, as if he
stood. Or maybe he didn’t. Maybe it’s just the wind.

The morning is still—still in a way that feels staged, as if the world
is waiting to see what I’ll do next. Ash clings to the bark like a
memory. Every branch I brush leaves a streak on my skin, like the
mountain marking me even before the climb. The trees don’t move, nor
does the lava beneath Victory Ridge. Yet, everything is colder. The
chill presses in, not like winter, but like absence. Like warmth
refusing to return.

The trees thin around me as the sky opens, a low gradient of black and
ember. Even the stars seem to keep their distance. Somewhere, between my
footsteps and the mountain’s breath, I feel it: heat. A flicker, low and
guttural, behind my ribs—as if my stomach was recalling a memory.

Ignir. He’s still there—the shape of what I once was; the spark of what
I could’ve been, if the world hadn’t taught me to burn first and mourn
later. Maybe that’s why he follows me. Not out of trust. Not even out of
hope.

But because there’s no one left. No one to challenge me. To stop me.

He’ll be the last witness of what I am and the first witness to what I
am going to do. I think, even now, some part of him still believes that
I might look back at him, return to what I was. But I won’t. He
abandoned me—he’s no longer my partner. He’s just a tether, too thin to
pull me up, but too strong to let me fall. But because the thread
between us hasn’t snapped, it’s frayed and twisted and, maybe, that’s
the worst part.

I brush my hand along my arm, soot swiping across my skin. I don’t know
where it came from. Or maybe I do. Maybe I’ve been burning all this
time.

The road to Mount Fervor is not marked—just blackened stone and broken
ground, but I follow it because it’s the only path that dares to rise.
The air crackles with the ash that crunches under my feet like old
regrets. The winds carry voices—my mother, Brecken, the man with the
collared Eidra. They’re all calling. Condemning.

By the time I reach the slopes, I’m no longer sure if I’m running
towards something or away from everything else. At the base of the
mountain, I feel something tug at my soul. Depression? Betrayal? Then, a
flash of red and the shimmer of scales.

I turn to find Ignir, but instead there’s only smoke; a trail of
cowardice. Yet, I can feel him, finally beginning to manifest.

But it’s too late. I don’t need him.

The path curves sharply, a jagged tunnel swallowing it with the breath
cultivated by centuries of heat. The rock here is smooth, the antithesis
of the rest of the mountain—obsidian polished not by time, but by
intention. As I step inside, the air thickens. Even Ignir, whose
presence is a phantom behind me, seems dimmed.

The first thing I notice are the glossy walls that shimmer faintly,
dancing along with my movements. At first, the reflections are
faint—flickers of Brecken, of my mother’s silhouette, my father’s back.
They blur and stretch across the curved rock. As I try to catch them,
they warp beneath my fingertips and, the closer I get, the more they
shift. Until I see myself.

Twice.

On the left, I am broken. My body is crumpled beneath soot and silence.
My fingernails dirtied and chipped from clawing at things I couldn’t
save. My eyes are wild, desperate. Behind me, Ignir is dim—a ghost of a
flame. He watches me with something close to grief. His tail drags. His
breath flickers. But he doesn’t leave.

On the right, I stand unbent. With my igneous hair, I look strong. My
posture is upright—confident. My eyes, like carved garnet, are
unwavering. Fire wreaths my body like a coronation. Behind me, Ignir
stands too—but he is not himself. His form is forged from blackened
steel, flames caged inside a crystalline shell. He no longer watches. He
follows.

Neither version of him meets my eyes, and neither version of me looks
like I remember.

The reflections begin to warp, fluttering like moths against firelight.
The strong version smiles—not with joy, but with certainty. The weak one
weeps—not for himself, but for the things he has lost. And, somewhere
between them, I stand alone. The real me. The only me. Behind me, I see
Ignir, warped and distorted by the intricacies of the cavern. His scales
dark, like charcoal long burned, smoke trailing quietly around him.

“This is what you could be,” the stronger reflection says. Fire curls in
his irises, not from fear, but familiarity. His jaw clenches with
confidence, his shoulders drawn back like they had never had to carry
Brecken away from his burning home. “Overwhelming might. A great
protector.”

Behind him, Ignir stands. Not beside him, but beneath him; towering in
form, but hollow in posture. His flames are no longer wild, but
restrained, pressed into neat channels like veins through molten armor.
His eyes do not glow with thought, but with obedience. A creature
forged, not followed. The man before, he is not me—he’s a tyrant. The
result of strength without restraint.

But restraint didn’t save the village. Restraint didn’t save my mother.

The reflection lifts a hand, the glass rippling around his fingertips
into a memory: Brecken’s body slumped against mine. My mother’s
outstretched arms fading into mold. The man with the collared Eidra
walking away. And me—alone, my soul screaming for Ignir, who never came.

“You are not strong,” the reflection echoed. “You are the memory of
someone who thought he was. You believe that you are fire, but you’re
merely ash pretending to burn. You never wanted a reflection. You wanted
a weapon that agreed with you.”

My teeth clench so tightly I can hear them grind. My feet scrape across
the floor as I step forward, Ignir watching silently behind me, and I
drive my fist into the glass.

The mirror shatters, but not in the way glass should. Light splits down
the seams in veins, blooming like wounds. The mirror explodes outward as
the light fractures like bone. Two shards stay still among the chaos—one
showing me crawling and begging, covered in soot and blood. The other,
standing tall and radiant, fire surging from his chest like it was
always meant to be there. One version died in the rubble. The other
stepped over it.

I don’t stop, my arms permanently fueled by the rising heat of my
stomach. My hand collides with the stone over, and over, and over, until
my skin begins to split like the mirror. I can’t stop, not until the
cave refuses to show me anything but dust and reflections that no longer
know their shape.

“You don’t know me,” I whisper. But even I’m not quite sure who those
words are for.

Yet, I hear a response. In the corner of my mind, I hear Ignir’s
breath—a low, embered sound. Not grief, nor rage. Recognition. He knows
what I’ve chosen and what I’ve burned to get here. And still, he doesn’t
move.

The chamber behind me collapses into silence, yet its echoes linger—not
in sound, but in sensation. The reflections have thinned themselves into
the marrow of my bonnes, settled like ash behind my ribs. My legs begin
to move, my footsteps more of a suggestion than a conviction. I don’t
continue because I’ve recovered. I continue because there is nothing
left to break.

Ignir trails behind me. Not as a guardian or a companion, but as a
shadow. I don’t hear his steps, only the subconscious crackle of heat—of
his imagined, tempered scales against stones. Why does he choose now to
plague me? Once, he would’ve walked beside me. We would draw our
strength from the rhythm of our steps, from the spark ignited by our
presences pressed together, like flint against steel. Now, it feels as
if I carry both of our weights; he’s just another set of eyes I can’t
bear to look into.

As I delve deeper into the tunnel, the floor begins to splinter. A burst
of steam lashes up, blistering against my calves. I grit my teeth and
begin to climb over it, my hand latching onto the craggy walls beside
me. As I scale across, my hand catches on a shard of rock, tearing my
palm. Another scar to remind me that this journey is one of isolation.

My ears emulate Ignir’s claws clicking softly on the stone as he steps
around the fissure like it was never there. My eyes trick me into seeing
him and his prideful, scale armor, before he is wiped away by a blink. I
keep walking as I can feel my pulse try to escape me, trying to pound
out from underneath the bruises of my thoughts. Then softly, I can hear
Ignir’s tail brushing the stone, deliberate. A sound not of warning, but
a reminder.

He’s still with me. But not for me.

I slow and look at my torn hands: my knuckles bleeding from the
reflective walls and my palms shredded by the walls of the tunnel. For a
breath, I let myself fantasize about working through the tunnel
together. Me and Ignir. I recall memories about how he once erupted
beside me with a plume of dignity. The noises he would make were a kind
of thunder that rumbled through my spine to remind me to stand my
ground. We lifted each other up. Ignir was more than strength, he was
certainty. But now all I feel is friction—the type that cauterizes,
instead of comforts.

“Ignir,” I say, my voice empty of command. “Do you think I’m wrong?”

The echoes of his tail dragging along the ground ceases. For a moment, I
thought he would appear in front of me. I thought that I'd pierced
something underneath that indestructible shell. Kindled something under
the crust. But instead, I feel the weight of his honor shift as he bows
his head. Not in reverence, nor guilt.

Withdrawal. As if he’s planning to retreat.

I swallow the sickness that’s begun to rise in my throat, the bile of
cowardice that coats my tongue. “We’re doing this for them,” I say. “For
Brecken. For mother. For the village.”

I press forward before I hear what I don’t want to. Before the stillness
becomes a rebuttal.

The path widens once more as I feel my breath wavering. Flames bloom
across the ground like roots desperate for sunlight; they’re veins of
fire weaving through stone and pulsing with ancient intention. Despite
the brightness of the fire, twilight sticks to the edges of the cavern,
coating the cavern with uncertainty that won’t extinguish.

With each step, the flames shift. Confidently, I walk around them,
hearing them cackle at me. Their laughter intensifies, whispering words
from my past. Each flicker paints itself into memories, and soon the
walls of fire become canvases. Their flames lick the air like a brush;
their embers articulate the mirage; each bloomed like pigments. Each
fire sketched stories in soot and scarlet.

In a soft and steady glow, the fire paints a training ground. Lined by
obsidian columns, it’s rough and scorched. The afternoon sun hangs high,
drawing long shadows from the quiet figures within. Brecken rests on a
nearby stone, arms crossed, Vulkanoir sitting silently at his side. I
stand alone in the center, hands clasped behind my back, watching Ignir.

His stance is firm. His chest heaves with a quiet rhythm. The tips of
his flames pulse with each breath.

“Again,” I say and point toward the boulder.

Ignir nods and charges, his body a streak of molten light. He hits the
center of stone with perfect accuracy. Fire splinters across its surface
and cracks bloom like spiderwebs. But it’s not enough.

“You hesitated.”

Ignir turns his head slightly, tail twitching, but says nothing. The
flame along his spine flares once, as though in protest, before dimming.

“I’m not asking you to think,” I continue, stepping closer. “Just act.
Trust my direction.”

He lowers his head slightly, then moves back into position.

Brecken’s voice cuts through the still air. “You know he can feel you,
right?” My eyes roll over. “He’s not stone, nor a sword. You push, and
he’ll push back.”

“He’s fine,” I reply, sharper than intended. “He’ll push harder when he
stops holding back.”

Brecken raises a brow but says nothing else. Vulkanoir’s tail taps once
against the ground in slow rhythm.

I turn back to my Eidra. “Ignir, again.”

This time, he moves faster, angling slightly. He hits the edge of the
boulder as it shears, partially. A blast of heat rolls over me, catching
the end of my coat.

“Better.”

Ignir pants. His eyes flick toward mine, not in search of praise, but
something quieter. I nod curtly and look away. Circling slowly around
him, I let the silence stretch. “You’re not just fire, Ignir. You’re
focus. Precision. Strength. We win because we burn away everything that
isn’t.”

His tail twitches again, subtly, but he lowers himself into the ready
stance once more. Brecken rises and dusts himself off. “I don’t think
he’s asking for much, Emrys,” he says. “Just to be seen.”

“I see him,” I say. “I see exactly what he can be.”

Brecken looks away, shaking his head with a sigh too quiet to answer.

The training ground dims slightly as the sky tilts westward. The
scorched earth smells of char and sweat. Ignir’s flames settle to a low,
simmering pulse, obedient and steady. But as I call him back to my side,
I catch a flicker in his eyes—not defiance, not anger, but distance. A
soft retreat.

The scene vanishes as a breeze rips through the cavern. Flames encircle
me once again, their laughter subdued into solemn murmurs, before
rippling once more, a sigh of smoke exhaling into the shape of memory.
It’s softer now. Less fierce, but somehow colder, woven with threads of
unease. The scene shifts gently, almost apologetically, into an arena
lit with torches whose lights shudder unsurely against a gathering dusk.

Brecken stands beside me again, shoulder squared, his gaze steady.
Across the sandy circle stand opponents younger than us, but already
confident beyond their years. Their Eidra pace eagerly, reflections of
discipline and trust glowing subtly in the twilight.

“Ignir, forward,” I say, my voice calm but edged. My words are quieter
than usual. They’re weighted with anticipation.

Ignir strides out immediately, his flames bright and curiously tempered.
His eyes flick briefly toward me for guidance. Beside us, Brecken waits
a heartbeat longer before nodding at Vulkanoir. Their movement is
synchronized and careful, as if each step is drawn from the other’s
breath.

“Hold your line,” Brecken whispers, his voice a steady counterpoint to
mine.

Our opponents shift, their movements swift and coordinated—one Eidra
striking low while the other vaults high. They’re like reflections
moving seamlessly in water.

“Intercept!” I command, my voice thrumming past a break with urgency.

Ignir lunges, his flames blazing sharply. But there’s a hesitation,
infinitesimal yet glaring, like the beat of silence between lightning
and thunder.

“Faster!” My voice rises, tension tightening its edges.

His flames roar unevenly. The opponent Eidra pivots smoothly, dodging
Ignir’s hurried strike, and exposing a gap. It’s tiny, but it’s enough
to exploit.

“Vulkanoir—” Brecken begins, but his Eidra is already there, covering
Ignir’s flank—bearing the consequences of my impatience. Yet even her
timely intervention isn’t enough to fully defend the momentum our
opponents have seized.

Ignir’s flames flicker chaotically as I feel my heart pulse
discordantly. I feel his frustration echo through me. “Ignir, listen—” I
begin, but my voice is drowned out by the sudden rush of movement. Our
opponents, sensing our dissonance, push forward relentlessly.

Brecken reacts fluidly, his voice a soft suggestion to Vulkanoir. In
contrast, my commands grow sharper, frayed at the edges by a feeling I
can’t describe. Ignir’s flames flare erratically and his rhythm is
broken by the conflicting demands I pour into him—advance, retreat,
strike, guard.

But within Ignir’s hesitation is clarity—a quiet assertion of his own
instincts. He sees the patterns Brecken and Vulkanoir follow
instinctively, their measured strategy contrasting sharply with our own
discordant maneuvers. In that moment, Ignir recognizes that blind
obedience to my demands isn’t strength. It’s shackles. He knows our
victory lies in flexibility, in his ability to adapt beyond my rigid
orders. If he could just find a moment—just one—where I would pause,
trust him, and let his flames guide us instead of commanding them, then
perhaps we could emerge victorious. Perhaps we could both find pride and
certainty not just in winning, but in how we won.

Yet my voice slices through again, desperate and unyielding. “Ignir!
Now!”

It’s too much.

In a decisive strike, our opponents surge through the weakened line.
Ignir falters, his flames smothered and scattered like embers after an
extinguished fire pit. He collapses, the silence afterward feeling
heavier than the noise of the fight. Defeat settles with a chill, dust
and shame suspended around us.

“Ignir,” I say softly, trying to remove the nature of command from my
voice.

His flames rise tentatively again, flickering doubtfully as they reflect
in my eyes—shadows of uncertainty mingling with the dim glow of
defiance.

Brecken places a quiet hand on my shoulder. “Next time,” he murmurs
gently, “we’ll listen to each other better.”

But as I look away from Ignir’s hesitant flames, my chest tightens with
something darker than disappointment. The fault line between Ignir and
me widens silently and subtly—a fissure that I pretend not to see, that
I bury beneath vows of improvement and reassurances of unity.

The memory shivers, dissolving slowly back into embers and smoke,
leaving only the quiet echo of a rift long ignored. Ignir’s low hum
rises from the embers, not in anger, but in sadness—a cadence that I
never permitted myself to hear before. It resonates deeply, speaking in
no language I know, yet so saturated with feeling that its meaning is
undeniable.

*You never asked*, Ignir whispers. The flames rise gently, crackling
into sorrowful truths. *You assumed. Demanded. Ordered.*

My fists tighten, and the heat around me grows stifling and oppressive.
“I needed strength,” I reply bitterly, “and you promised it.”

*Strength*, Ignir’s flames answer, swirling closer and softer, *was
never in question. It was your heart that faltered.*

The cavern trembles, Ignir’s hum reverberating within my bones. Images
cascade around me, the fire depicting the night of the attack.

Pulsing vividly, the flames carve the cavern into the village square on
that fateful night. Smoke billows, choking the sky. Screams ripple
around us, edged with terror. The silhouette of the enemy emerges,
cloaked in shadow, his Eidra towering over us, bound and twisted with a
collar of control. Brecken stands at my side, steady. In front of us,
Ignir and Vulkanoir, standing valiantly.

“Ignir,” I command. My voice pierces the smoke, sharp and unyielding.
“You know what to do.” Ignir surges forward, flames blooming from his
scales, searing the air with each step.

“Hold your ground, Vulkanoir!” Brecken calls, his voice firm and
trusting. His Eidra stands solidly, deflecting blows meant for us, her
calm determination stark against Ignir’s frantic and flickering blaze.
The collared Eidra moves to meet him, ripping through the haze like a
blade through silk. The moment they clash, the night twists—Ignir’s
brightness swallowed in a tide of encroaching black.

“Ignir, burn brighter!” I shout, hammering the command forward like a
weapon. Ignir obeys, his flames flaring hungrily—but they waver, thin at
the edges. The collared Eidra presses, its shadow seeping like heavy ink
into Ignir’s fire, smothering each ember it touches.

Ignir glances back—briefly, almost imperceptibly. His embers flicker, a
question shivering inside them. I answer only with another command,
forcing him forward.

The collared Eidra howls—a truly guttural and horrific noise—then
strikes. I see the attack too late, a tendril of shadow slicing toward
my blind side. An attack directly at me. My body twists to brace for it,
but I’m too slow.

But Brecken is faster. Vulkanoir bursts between us in a shield of
twilight and silver flames. The collision detonates the air around us,
throwing Brecken and Vulkanoir back in a torrent of smoke and stone.
Embers scatter like frightened insects as Brecken hits the ground, his
body folding wrong against the broken earth.

“Brecken!” I lunge at him, skidding on my knees. Blood weaves down the
side of his face, catching the last light of Ignir’s flames.

He grips my wrist, his voice hoarse but alive. “Fight, Emrys. Don’t
stop. Trust in Ignir.”

I stagger to my feet as my arms scream with exhaustion. Across the
square, the collared Eidra looms, untouched. Behind me, Brecken lies
broken, Vulkanoir trembling, but still shielding him even in defeat.

I turn back to Ignir, my last blade, my last breath of defiance. Of
protection.

He stands—barely. His form is coated in ash, his red scales dulled to a
muted flame. He takes a step forward and the ground seems to pull at
him, as if the weight of my will alone drags him down. The collared
Eidra advances, its shadow expanding outwards and enveloping the square,
thick, energized, and absolute.

It’s when the shadows curl at my feet that I realize: we can’t win this
fight. I remember the chill of our first loss—how the air grieved for
me. But that was when my opponents obeyed the rules. The man and his
Eidra before me offers something else: not just defeat, but the promise
that defeat will be the last thing I feel.

I raise my hand—not to strike, but to summon Ignir back. To pull him
out.

But Ignir does not turn. His claws scrape forward, dragging embers
across the cracked and icy stone. His body heaves, battered and listing,
but still he presses onward. Each step is a declaration: *I can still
fight. I am still worthy.* His gaze meets mine, warped heat coiling from
his scales, an engine of memory as he too remembers our defeat: a time
where he obeyed too quickly and too blindly, and the silence that
followed. And now, as death draws near, he chooses differently.

I tighten my fingers, reaching harder to call him back.

Ignir stumbles mid-stride. His flames sputter discordantly, the tether
between us pulling taut—a leash woven from fear and love and pride. He
jerks his head, as if trying to shake it off, as if refusing to be
reeled in like something broken.

Another blast of shadow strikes across his side as his scales split
open, shedding light in ragged shivers.

“Ignir!” I cry involuntarily.

Yet, he doesn’t retreat, he roars—a sound that splits the ash-heavy air,
defiant and heart-wrenching—and throws himself forward again. The tether
strains, fraying visibly under the clash of our wills. My instinct yanks
him back to preserve him. His instinct fights to protect me.

Ignir hurls a blast of flame towards the enemy, illuminating and
brilliant for a heartbeat, then faltering, snagged halfway by my pull,
the fire curling back upon itself. In response, the collared Eidra
strikes. Ignir staggers, another shadow claws into his flank. His steps
falter not from lack of courage, but from the unbearable weight of being
caught between what he is and what I demand him to be.

He turns, briefly, catching my eyes. Not accusing. Not begging. Only
searching, as if trying to find a thread between us that hasn’t already
burned away. I flinch without meaning to, the last command lodges in my
throat, unfinished.

But Ignir sees it. And then, for the first time, he does not wait for
me. He charges—wounded and limping, burning down to his very
bones—straight into the heart of the shadows. He fights not because I
told him to, but because he still believed we could be more than what we
had become.

The collared Eidra swallows him whole. His flames flicker—once,
twice—then collapse into ash, scattered like broken oaths across the
empty square. I fall to my knees as I reach out to the smoke, but I’m
too late.

It wasn’t strength that failed us. It was trust. And I never even
realized it was missing until there was nothing left to hold.

The flames pause, as if taken aback, then form one last vision: myself
kneeling helplessly as Brecken lay wounded, Ignir’s fire shimmering
around me, silently begging me to trust, to believe. To surrender pride
and embrace true courage. Yet, in that moment, all I did was rage and
despair as Ignir’s light faded with my hope.

*You chose fear over faith*, Ignir blazes, his flames gently pulling
away, leaving me colder than I’ve ever been. *Yet you blame me for your
darkness.*

The fire swells, but does not strike. For a moment, it seems to wait for
something more. And, for a breath, I wonder if I’ve reached it. If this
is the moment where I let myself go and give in to Ignir’s embrace, a
kindling of clarity. But when I look down at my hands, I do not see a
revelation. I see fire, still dancing. Still warm. Still reaching out to
me. Even now, even here, Ignir offers his light.

And I remember the man who tore through our village, who shattered our
rites with every step and made the world bend by will alone. I remember
Brecken falling, my mother vanishing into mold, and the silence that
followed the cruelty, thick and suffocating.

And in that silence, I remember something deeper than fear—helplessness.

Honor did not save us. Virtue did not raise a shield. Trust did not
strike back.

But power—raw and unyielding—that man wielded it, and the world moved.
And I, who followed every rule, stood in ruin. So when I look into
Ignir’s flame, still waiting for me to change, I don’t feel hope.

I feel insulted.

“I blame you,” I whisper, “because you were supposed to be the one who
never failed.” The fire recoils, stunned. “You were my reflection. My
proof. My flame made form,” I continue, each word building with
certainty. “And if that flame dimmed—then it was never fire at all. It
was weakness wearing my shape.” I step forward defiantly, scattering the
flames with violent intent and waning their warmth. “You were my
darkness. My failure.” My eyes blaze behind my words as I feel them
begin to burn. “You simply weren’t strong enough. Maybe I never deserved
you. But you definitely never deserved me.”

The cavern trembles again, its embers flaring wildly in shock and
sadness. Yet, I press forward, resolved now more than ever. I won’t
succumb to false introspection. I won’t be chained by weakness disguised
as wisdom. Ignir’s flames retreat, abandoning the cavern walls to
twilight, which now feels welcoming in its emptiness.

Ahead, the path ascends sharply. The cavern and my memories begin to
fade behind me, consumed by my shadow and blocked by my back. I push
forward into the darkness and further into the heart of Mount
Fervor—towards Torvexus—carrying only the certainty that I alone define
my strength.

I alone shape my destiny.

The flame narrows to a silence. The next chamber waits like a held
breath. A maw of obsidian yawns before me, ribbed with glass veins and
humming with pressure. No smoke. No fire. Just stillness, heavy enough
to anchor all of Pyrathos.

Then I see it.

The artifact—an amalgamation of limestone and old ash. It’s shaped
without care, smoothed not by time but by myth. I wrap my hands
carefully around it as it accidentally peels off the ground. It’s
deceptively weightless, just as the Pyrrh legends described. Even more,
it’s brittle in my grasp, like something that was never meant to be held
or hold anything at all—a hollow stone shaped from legend but
disappointingly ordinary.

“You’ve come farther than most,” the artifact rattles as a voice echoes
out of it, not with pride, but amusement. “Tell me, do you still believe
in the fire’s judgment? Or have you learned to stoke your own?”

The artifact cracks and from the fissure blasts a torrent of fire. I
reel backwards and drop it on the ground, the cackling of lava
harmonizing with the bursting of the limestone. Smoke and ash releases
and begins to bond with orange veins of fire, all hardening into an
obsidian body with four legs. Red eyes settle like newly lit coals as a
mane of lava erupts around its neck. It bares its stalactite teeth,
which drip ready with burning saliva.

*The Volcanic Mane*. *The Obsidian Maw*. *The Claws of Madness*.

Torvexus.

Yet, I stand tall. As even the legend before me is smaller than the
collared Eidra that took everything from me.

“It’s been centuries since I’ve tasted the ash of Pyrathos,” his voice
is smooth and absolute. Refined by experience, and preserved by history.
His scorching eyes meet mine. “Has another King come to ask for
guidance?”

Without words, I step forward to display my conviction.

“Ah, Pyrathian,” his breath crackles like twigs engulfed in flame.
“You’ve reached for fire hoping it would not burn you. Tell me, what
flame do you truly seek: one to illuminate or one to consume?”

“I seek a flame that will burn away the threats of Pyrathos. The flame
that promised protection ever since I was young.”

The beast nods slowly and begins to stride around me. “Protection,” he
echoes. “What a fragile justification. You think I haven’t seen your
life? That what was shown to you in this mountain was not a public
assessment of your history? Of your character?” A mix of a snarl and a
cackle exits his obsidian throat. “You must have learned the truth by
now: power demands persistence. It is not a weapon to be drawn
impulsively. It is a state of being—unbroken, unchanged, unwavering,
even when hidden away in darkness.”  
My voice rises. “What good is power locked behind rules? Culture and
values, they’re no stronger than limestone. Persistence didn’t save my
village or my family, nor did it free you. You are here by my design. By
my strength.”

“You mistake strength for urgency and dominance for control. But true
power endures beyond circumstance. I was imprisoned yet unchanged.
Shackled yet undiminished. My values persisted even when the world tried
to crush me.” Torvexus tilts his head slightly, watching me like a child
watching a flickering candle. “Can you say the same?”

My throat tightens. I can feel a spark inside of me, a fire flickering
with unease.

“Your values?” I spit back. “What values are those? Honor? Integrity?
They’re empty words from your Form. All that matters now is survival.
You speak of persistence, but persistence without victory is futility.”

Painfully patient, the beast smiles softly. “Survival? Is that all you
seek? Then why hesitate at all? The truth, Pyrathian, is that you aren’t
seeking power. You’re running from weakness. Your rage is not strength,
it’s fear masked as resolve.”

“The rules I lived by failed me!” I yell. “My mother’s virtue didn’t
shield her from death, nor did my brother’s bravery. I believed the
flame protected the worthy, but all it ever did was consume us. If
dominance is the language the world respects, then I will speak it so
the rest of Pyrathos can be safe.”

Torvexus’ expression shifts—twists. With a low hum, he approaches, his
body colossal. “You remind me of someone I used to know,” he says. “The
world doesn’t respect those who don’t respect themselves. True power
doesn’t demand, it knows. It persists because it believes absolutely.
It’s quiet strength, a core untouched by the world’s whims or
cruelties.” He steps away, turning his back to me. “You, however, are
nothing but a reaction—a flame sputtering.”

I press forward to follow him. “If rage is what saves the ones I love,
then rage is justified. If control ends suffering, then I must control
everything. If the world respects only fear, then fear I will become—I
must become.”

The beast sighs, turning to face me again. His presence presses against
my resolve, cool, calm, and utterly unmoved. “You almost convince
yourself. But you fear your own reflection, Pyrathian. You want to
dominate because you fear being dominated. That is not power, it’s
desperation. You do not even know who you truly are.”

“And you do?”  
Torvexus flinches with a tinge of impression. “I know exactly who I am,”
he replies. “I was locked away, but never broken. Forgotten, but never
lost. My power is persistence—survival not of body, but of purpose. That
is strength. And you, sadly, are not strong.”

My chest pulses, igniting with a sickening fusion of fear, anger, and
shame. “You’re wrong.”

“Am I?” He murmurs. “Let us test that conviction.”

His strike is instantaneous and precise, not an act of rage, but
judgment. His obsidian claw collides with my side, cracking ribs and
sending splinters of pain across every nerve. My vision fragments as I
collapse, the world slipping from me like embers through fingers. My
breaths shallow into panicked, half-formed gasps.

Heat surges through my body as I feel the air prick me. *Get up*, I hear
Ignir whisper inside me, a command reversed.

“Now,” Torvexus snarls, standing calmly above me, his eyes almost
sorrowful. “We shall see if there’s anything within you that refuses to
break.”

Reaching inward, I grab the only meaningful part of my soul. Just like I
had done with Ignir all those years ago, I press into my broken chest
and recite my words of synchronicity.

“Victory is nothing without virtue,” I say to myself as I feel the air
distort around me. For once, I see the monster’s eyes dim. “Strength is
worthless without sanctity,” I bring my knee forward and regain my
balance. My head beats as my eyes connect with Torvexus’, the monster
locked into a state of docility. “Intensity has no purpose without
integrity.”

Reality bursts around me as I feel an overwhelming intake of pressure
enter my body. My nerves split, my skin ignites, and my head crashes.
The ground craters beneath me, the earth frail compared to the power of
Form. Then, suddenly, it all recedes as I drop to my knees.

“Oh, my,” Torvexus says, unaffected. “You didn’t think that you could
control me, did you?”

As I blink, my back fractures. My arms bend wrong and blood dyes my
vision. Brown dust settles around me, obscuring everything but the
beast’s two, glowing eyes.

“You’re no Pyrrh,” the beast says. “You’re not nearly as strong as him.
What made you think that, out of anyone, you could synchronize with me?”
One of his claws squeezes my body like a toy. “Those words of
synchronicity,” he continues to press down as I feel my bones begin to
quake, threatening to snap, “you don’t even believe them anymore—you’ve
abandoned that part of your identity. That’s why you failed, not because
you weren’t strong enough to save those around you, but because you
weren’t strong enough to save yourself.”

The world around me begins to tighten—the same feeling I had when facing
the man with the collared Eidra. My heartbeat falters. I taste blood
mixed with stone, bitter, dry, and metallic. The tether inside me
tightens, trembling. But what I see in front of me is not Torvexus, nor
the man with the collared Eidra, but Ignir.

Ignir before his ascension, when I was just a young child and his form
matched mine. When we didn’t have to worry about our results in battle
and could enjoy each other’s company. A memory lost, burned away, but
never weak.

“Ignir—” I say, my final word.

It’s not a command, nor an instruction, but a prayer. A confession. A
true call. Something inside me shudders. Torvexus removes his claw of
madness and steps back. Then, that feeling that boiled inside me
explodes violently outwards. Flames rupture from my chest as the air
screams around me. But something is wrong, horrifically wrong. Ignir
emerges not in harmony, but agony. His form is twisted, his scales
blistering and warped, his eyes are hollow sockets of molten torment.

His scream pierces the cavern, not a roar of triumph, but a howl of
grief. My breath rips out of my throat as the oxygen that’s left is
inherited by the raw, untended fire inside me. My flesh rends as Ignir
claws his way from within me, flames twisting chaotically in abstract
and grotesque patterns. His scales bubble and blister into blackened
armor, merging painfully with my own muscle.

Ignir’s screams fuse with my own, an unbearable cacophony of anguish and
despair. Our limbs twist unnaturally, muscle fibers knitting together in
frantic, uneven stitches and veins of fire weaving erratically beneath
our shared skin. My spine arches as I feel my vertebrae snap and extend,
forming a rigid crest lined with smoldering embers. In a final,
excruciating breath, our consciousness collides as I see our history and
relationship, twisted and shattered: training, our first defeat, and the
man and the collared Eidra. But, most of all, we see our incongruity
ever since the idea of strength entered either of our minds. Ignir’s
claws rake the air, stuttering, as if forgetting whether they were meant
to strike or to steady. The heat intensifies, coiling not outward, but
inward, immolating my soul with an embrace. Then, the scream is cut
short as my face is forced upwards, Ignir’s maw enveloping mine, his jaw
frozen in a tortured wail.

The screams settle within the cavern, forever blocked from the outside
world. The only witness, Torvexus, who stares at me with hungry and
observing eyes. “What are you now, Pyrathian?” He asks. “Is this
strength? Or something entirely new?”

Torvexus watches me with keen fascination, unmoving even as I take my
first steps forward. My new form pulses with raw, uncontrolled power—a
heartbeat of fire, pain, and molten resolve. Yet, my legs feel empty and
alien and my heart hollow. They’re detached from everything I once knew
about myself.

“Tell me,” Torvexus breathes. “Does this taste like victory?”

My limbs react without thought, driven by instinct alone. A single
movement, effortless and fluid. Obsidian shatters beneath the sudden
weight of my—our—strike. Armor fragments scatter across the cavern
floor, shimmering briefly before melting into pools of dull reflection.

The beast snarls, realizing the pieces that I have ripped off of it.
Torvexus lunges forward, a blur in the air. But he’s too slow for my
unthinking body. My vision explodes as I run through the cavern, the
walls becoming fluid, yet I can feel that every step has purpose—not
mine, but his. Orange bursts around me as I know that Torvexus’ flames
have singed me, but my hybrid skin fails to react, fails to burn.

Pushing off the wall, I soar through the air, the resistance of the
wind, forcing my arms backward. Torvexus’ glowing eyes no longer
resemble his intensity, but targets. Bullseyes. With a shatter and a
scrape, I remove the light from them as I hear him roar behind me, not
denoted by the tone of battle, but rather diluted with cackles.

He swipes blindly at me as I feel my speed burn me hotter than any flame
has in my life. My arm, reasoned by a conscience that’s not my own,
swipes outward as I remove one of Torvexus’ pillaring legs. Then
another. Then another. Then another.

Torvexus staggers, eyes widening not with fear, but understanding. He
smiles softly as he falls, the flaring orange of his teeth now
extinguishing to black and gray ash. “As I said before,” he wheezes.
“You’re no Pyrrh.” His body dissipates into embers that drift slowly
into oblivion, his manifestation returning to true Form. There are no
screams, nor pleading, only quiet acceptance with fascination etched
into every dying spark.

Then there’s silence.

I stand in the aftermath, my victory echoing silently around me. The
cavern is quiet now, devoid of both enemy and ally. My senses, or our
senses, burn with acute perception: the scent of ash and burnt flesh,
the gentle drip of molten rock, the taste of bitter smoke. But these
sensations do not bring satisfaction, only a profound, overwhelming
emptiness.

I gaze down at our reflection within the obsidian glass. The fire has
settled beneath our cracked skin, our molten veins now glowing with my
heartbeat. Our eyes are hollow and sunken, exhaustion mixed with
despair. Ignir is there too, both of us unified and absolute in our
power—and our disappointment. Neither of us has ever felt weaker.

All my life, I feared defeat. I feared the scorching breath of Pyrathos
and the choking ashes of loss. Now, I realize the cruelest joke of all:
I have not escaped defeat, I have embodied it.

My thoughts drift, unbidden, to Brecken. To the village I lost. To my
mother’s gentle smile. To Ignir’s once-warm presence by my side. All
gone, burned away into irretrievable memories as our perceptions of
history are warped by each other. All that’s left is this terrible
clarity:

Defeat is not humiliation, nor a momentary failing. Defeat is the
disappointed exhale of Pyrathos gliding across the remains of your skin;
defeat is standing atop your enemy’s ashes, yet choking on the emptiness
of a meaningless victory; defeat is the relentless embers that smolder
quietly in your heart, waiting, not to be reignited, but simply to
remind you that you have burned away everything else you once held dear.

I take a step forward. Then another. I move onward, but toward nothing
at all. A future of absolute strength lies ahead, devoid of humanity, of
reflection, and of meaning. Meanwhile, in the cavern behind, the last
sparks of Torvexus drift silently upward, like fading stars, briefly
illuminated before vanishing into darkness.

This is not honor nor virtue. But it could be change. Maybe Torvexus was
right, maybe persistence was the key—a lifeline of values to adhere to.
As I walk through the tunnel of obsidian glass, I watch myself strive,
yet I cannot identify what is left of me. Even in our synthesis, I
recognize that Ignir and I still have our one, unifying, and Pyrathian
value: strength. I found strength in Ignir’s power and he found strength
in my companionship. Both had failed, both have been re-ignited.

So it wasn’t the function of rules that destroyed my life, but rather
how our rules functioned. What is the point of rules if it doesn’t leave
space for followers? For believers? Pyrrh didn’t fail his quest for
vengeance because he broke the rules, but because he failed to change
them. His persistence villainized him because his perspective of
protection misaligned with the culture he had once founded.

He needed to change both himself and the rules.

I’ve done half of the work already and I refuse to ignore his mistakes.

I exit Mount Fervor as I watch the Pyrathian sun begin to set, its
bruised hues melting the sky. Ashes fall from the top of the mountain,
slipping off of the scales that decorate my skin. For the first time, I
am not bearing the heat of my home, but I am comfortable living with it.

There’s nothing left to prove.

*Only change to be made*.
